# Roadmap

## How to Work on a Continuation Course

Continuation Courses are designed to extend your current knowledge and skills in professionally rewarding directions. They can help you not only maintain, but improve, your current coding ability.

## Strategies to Succeed in Asynchronous Learning

Unlike boot camps, Continuation Courses are entirely **asynchronous**, which means they can be completed at any time or pace. Asynchronous learning experiences are designed to provide more flexibility, choice, and access as you continue your learning journey—in fact, they’re available 24 hours a day! The downside to asynchronous learning is that you might feel less accountable or socially supported than you would in a high-intensity bootcamp.

Successful strategies for completing the Continuation Course include the following:

* Set a clear, measurable goal, such as completing the continuation course within 10 days.

* Plan your learning sessions in advance and block them off on your calendar. Create a back-up plan if one of your sessions is interrupted. Plan in hour-long chunks.

* Find a partner, group, or team to learn with; this might be a fellow student from boot camp, a colleague, or a friend. Even if your partner is working on another course or topic, having regular check-ins can be inspiring and beneficial.

* Make sure you’ve joined the [Boot Camp Network Slack workspace](https://bootcampsnetwork.com/) to make connections with boot camp grads all over the world. Find the Java Continuation Course channel (`#java-cc-peer-support`), post any questions you might have to get help from fellow graduates, and post answers to assist new members of your developer network.

* Create a learning environment that is conducive to studying. Places with great WiFi, few distractions, and quiet (or you can use headphones) are ideal.

* Prepare for obstacles by thinking in advance about what you will do if you feel stuck or discouraged. As always, you will have the entire internet at your fingertips, including tons of documentation, message boards, and coding communities.

* Remember that you have already demonstrated your ability to put in the work and pick up new, complex topics in technical fields. It’s time to flex those brain muscles and begin!

## Time Requirements and Scheduling

This course is designed to take around 10–15 hours to complete, and to be completed in about 1–2 weeks, depending on your time commitment.

* For recent boot camp alumni, you may choose to use the same time periods that you had allotted to class to complete this course: two three-hour sessions and one four-hour session.

* For others, you may want to take advantage of the self-paced nature of the material and split your time into smaller study sessions, such as 10 one-hour sessions or six 90-minute sessions.

* In both cases, remember that scheduling your sessions in advance and devoting a consistent amount of time to every session can help keep you on track and build a learning rhythm.

* No matter how long your study sessions are, we encourage you to take short “brain breaks” every 25 minutes or so by stepping away from the computer to clear your mind and refocus.

## What You Will Learn

By completing this module, you'll learn how to do the following:

* Build a Spring Boot API with the correct project structure and necessary dependencies generated by Spring Initializr

* Create CRUD operations with Spring Data JPA and MySQL

* Set up and configure the local environment and back-end server for Java

* Use Thymeleaf to add templating to the application to allow for user interactions

* Create front-end and back-end Controllers to maintain and process the application flow

* Highlight similarities between JavaScript and Java

* Deploy a Java application to Heroku

---
© 2022 edX Boot Camps LLC. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.