# Create the Spring Boot Java Project

Although we've installed all the required technology, we still have some setup to do. For one thing, we have to create the Spring Boot project. We'll use the application Spring Initializr to help do that. Spring Initializr's user interface allows us to select the configuration variables and dependencies that we need for a project.

Dependencies are bundled into groups of libraries that address certain common tasks. Let's consider, then, some of the tasks that we'll tackle for this project: we'll create an API that will connect to a MySQL database, and we'll use an ORM to map Java objects to the database tables, perform session management, and present HTML template pages to the API's users. We'll need to keep these tasks in mind while setting up the project because we'll select dependency bundles based on those needs.

Now to get started with Spring Initializr! Open your browser and navigate to the [Spring Initializr website](https://start.spring.io/). On that webpage, you'll have to choose from a series of settings and other options to initialize your project. Use the following instructions to complete the form:

* In the Project section, select Maven Project (the default).

* In the Language section, select Java (the default).

* In the Spring Boot section, select version 2.6.4 (or whatever the default version is).

* In the Project Metadata section, input the following information:

    * Group: com.technews

    * Artifact: tech-news-java-api

    * Name: tech-news-java-api

    * Description: Tech News Java API Project

    * Package Name: com.technews

    * Packaging: Jar (default)

    * Java: 8

* In the Dependencies section on the right side of the page, click the Add Dependencies button. Then search for and add the following dependencies:

    * Spring Web

    * Spring Data JPA

    * MySQL Driver

    * Spring Session

    * Thymeleaf

Once you've added all project information and dependencies, click the Generate button at the bottom of the page. Spring Initializr will generate the project with the proper folder structure, conveniently downloading it to a .zip file!

Now you need a root project folder on your machine. Create a new folder called `technews`, then navigate to your Downloads folder and find the .zip file generated by Spring Initializr. Unzip that file to your newly created `technews` folder.

---
© 2022 edX Boot Camps LLC. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.